What’s the most important thing anyone could ever do? Try to answer objectively. This was the question I asked myself at the ripe old age of 27; a time when I felt my floundering around for some kind of career, for some kind of passion should soon come to an end.

So what’s your answer? The best thing humanity could accomplish – cure cancer? Stop global warming? Explore the stars?

To me, the answer followed the question like night follows day, it seemed immediately obvious: cure death.

Isn’t that what religious leaders promise? Eternal life, the fountain of youth. Isn’t that what everyone wants: life and life more abundantly?

As I reflected on this revelation I knew there was no place for me in the achievement of that goal. I don’t know how to cure death, I don’t know anything about biology. This was not the answer to the real question I was seeking an answer to, “what should I do with my life?”

So finding no path for myself in the grand project of prolonging life indefinitely I turned my attention the question again – What is the second best thing humanity could accomplish?

Again the answer seemed obvious: if you can’t prolong life indefinitely, perhaps you can improve what little bit there is of it exponentially. And the only way to do that is through massive automation of the world’s economy, and the only way to accomplish this feat is to develop artificial general intelligence.

Now that’s something I can get behind. I had always been interested in computers and programming, unique ideas and frameworks. I had always been interested in consciousness and epistemology. And at the time I had been interested in machine learning for years.

I had no PhD. I wasn’t a developer, I wasn’t a genius or a prodigy. At best I was and still am of probably average intelligence. I could not realistically hope to ever make a significant contribution to the cause. But perhaps I could make an insignificant contribution, perhaps I could at least be part of the solution. At any rate, I find all the related topics absolutely fascinating and there’s no other problem I’d enjoy working on as much as the problem of Artificial General Intelligence.

And you know what, perhaps AGI is a path to figuring out how to cure death too, who knows.

As my first AI educational project, I decided to start at the beginning. I decided to see just how far you could go without any AI technology. I decided to make what I called a ‘naive sensorimotor inference engine.’

This blog is the story of the challenges and obstacles I faced along the way and what I tried to overcome them.
